Kapteyn Package 2.1


We would like to announce the release of version 2.1 of the Kapteyn
Package, a collection of Python modules developed by the computer group
of the Kapteyn Astronomical Institute, University of Groningen, The
Netherlands. 


Some of the package's features:

- Classes for the handling of spatial and spectral coordinates, WCS
  projections and transformations between different sky systems. Spectral
  translations (e.g. between frequencies and velocities) are supported as
  well as mixed coordinates. For WCS, Dr. Mark Calabretta's WCSLIB 4.7 is
  used. WCSLIB is integrated in the package and need not be installed
  separately.

- Tools for writing small applications for the display and interactive
  inspection of (FITS) data and for the creation of plots with world
  coordinate information, including all-sky plots. A unique feature is
  the possibility to make plots with mixed coordinates, e.g. where one
  axis is spatial and the other one is spectral. Matplotlib and PyFITS
  are used. 

- Utilities for use with Matplotlib such as obtaining coordinate
  information from plots, interactively modifiable colormaps and timer
  events (to facilitate movie loops).

- A class for the efficient reading, writing and manipulating of simple
  table-like structures in text files. 


New features:

- A class for plotting shapes like ellipses, rectangles and regular
  polygons. For these shapes angles and distances along a great circle
  are preserved. This class can be used for example to draw footprints on
  all-sky plots or a beam to show the resolution of an instrument. 

- Support for RGB-coded images.

- A class containing a function for estimating gaussian components in a
  profile. These estimates could subsequently be used as initial
  estimates for a least squares fit. 

- and, of course, many smaller improvements and some bugfixes. 


Currently supported architectures are Linux, Apple Mac OS X and
Microsoft Windows. 

Extensive documentation, including tutorial and background information,
as well as download and installation instructions can be found at
http://www.astro.rug.nl/software/kapteyn/

